Filter Reference
================

This is a reference document with a list of the filters and their arguments.

Filters
-------

``CharFilter``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This filter does simple charecter matches, used with ``CharField`` and
``TextField`` by default.

``BooleanFilter``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This filter matches a boolean, either ``True`` or ``False``, used with
``BooleanField`` and ``NullBooleanField`` by default.

``ChoiceFilter``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This filter matches an item of any type by choices, used with any field that
has ``choices``.

``MultipleChoiceFilter``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The same as ``ChoiceFilter`` except the user can select multiple items and it
selects the OR of all the choices.

``DateFilter``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Matches on a date.  Used with ``DateField`` by default.

``DateTimeFilter``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Matches on a date and time.  Used with ``DateTimeField`` by default.

``TimeFilter``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Matches on a time.  Used with ``TimeField`` by default.

``ModelChoiceFilter``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Similar to a ``ChoiceFilter`` except it works with related models, used for
``ForeignKey`` by default.

``MultipleModelChoiceFilter``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Similar to a ``MultipleChoiceFilter`` except it works with related models, uesd
for ``ManyToManyField`` by default.

``NumberFilter``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Filters based on a numerical value, used with ``IntegerField``, ``FloatField``,
and ``DecimalField`` by default.

``RangeFilter``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Filters where a value is between two numerical values.

``DateRangeFilter``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Filter similar to the admin changelist date one, it has a number of common
selections for working with date fields.

Core Arguments
--------------

``name``
~~~~~~~~

The name of the field this filter is supposed to filter on, if this is not
provided it automatically becomes the filter's name on the ``FilterSet``.

``label``
~~~~~~~~~

The label as it will apear in the HTML, analogous to a form field's label
argument.

``widget``
~~~~~~~~~~

The django.form Widget class which will represent the ``Filter``.  In addition
to the widgets that are included with Django that you can use there are
additional ones that django-filte provides which may be useful:
    * ``filter.widgets.LinkWidget`` -- this displays the options in a mannner
      similar to the way the Django Admin does, as a series of links.  The
      link for the selected option will have ``class="selected"``.

``action``
~~~~~~~~~~

An optional callable that tells the filter how to handle the queryset.  It
recieves a ``QuerySet`` and the value to filter on and should return a
``Queryset`` that is filtered appropriately.

``lookup_type``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The type of lookup that should be preformed using the Django ORM.  All the
normal options are allowed, and should be provided as a string.  You can also
provide either ``None`` or a ``list`` or ``tuple``, if ``None`` is provided
then user can select the lookup_type from all the ones available in the Django
ORM, and if a ``list`` or ``tuple`` is provided the user can select from those
options.

``**kwargs``
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Any extra keyword arguments will be provided to the accompanying form Field.
This can be used to provide arguments like ``choices`` or ``queryset``.
